<h3><b>System Overview</b></h3>
The Salary Prediction system is an innovative web application leveraging Machine Learning to forecast salaries based on specific parameters such as experience, years of education, and job location. This system is designed to offer users a predictive insight into potential salary expectations.<br>
To initiate the application, execute the command `streamlit run app.py` in the terminal once the model has been trained. This command activates the web server, enabling users to access the application through a web browser by navigating to `http://localhost:8501`.<br>
Upon accessing the web application, users will find a user-friendly interface where they can input relevant parameters such as years of experience, years of education, job location, and more. Subsequently, by clicking the "Predict" button, the system will generate and display the predicted salary based on the provided inputs.<br>
It is crucial to note that the predictions generated by this system serve as estimates derived from the data used to train the model. While it provides valuable insights, it may not perfectly predict actual salaries in every scenario. Users should interpret the results with the understanding that they are indicative estimates rather than definitive values.<br>
<hr>
<h3><b>Dataset Documentation</b></h3>
<b>Overview</b><br>
The enclosed dataset represents the complete and cleaned results of the 2020 Stack Overflow Developer Survey. To ensure respondent privacy, free response submissions and personally-identifying information have been excluded. Comprising three files—survey_results_public.csv, survey_results_schema.csv, and so_survey_2020.pdf—the dataset encompasses the main survey results, survey schema, and the survey instrument, respectively. To safeguard respondent privacy, free response submissions and personally-identifying information have been meticulously removed.<br>
Conducted from February 5 to February 28, 2020, the survey demanded a median time of 16.6 minutes for qualified responses. Recruitment of respondents primarily took place through Stack Overflow-owned channels, including onsite messaging, blog posts, email lists, Meta posts, banner ads, and social media. This recruitment strategy inherently favored highly engaged Stack Overflow users who were more likely to notice and click on survey links.<br>
As a motivational incentive, respondents completing the survey had the option to opt into a coveted "Census" badge. The dataset, offered under the Open Database License (ODbL) and the Database Contents License (DBCL), empowers users to freely share, adapt, and create derivative works. This freedom is contingent upon attributing Stack Overflow, maintaining the openness of the database during redistribution, and sharing-alike any adapted database under the ODbl.<br>

For official published results and insights, users can refer to the following links:
<ul>
  <li>[2020 Stack Overflow Developer Survey Results] (https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2020)</li>
  <li>[Previous Survey Results] (https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey)</li>
</ul>

<b>Attributes</b>
<ul>
    <li>Respondent: Unique identifier for each respondent</li>
    <li>MainBranch: The main field of occupation or branch the respondent is associated with</li>
    <li>Hobbyist: Whether the respondent codes as a hobby (Yes/No)</li>
    <li>Age: Age of the respondent</li>
    <li>Age1stCode: Age at which the respondent first started coding</li>
    <li>CompFreq: Compensation frequency (e.g., Monthly, Annually)</li>
    <li>CompTotal: Total compensation</li>
    <li>ConvertedComp: Converted compensation to a standard currency</li>
    <li>Country: Country of residence</li>
    <li>CurrencyDesc: Currency description</li>
    <li>CurrencySymbol: Currency symbol</li>
    <li>DatabaseDesireNextYear: Desired databases to work with in the next year</li>
    <li>DatabaseWorkedWith: Databases the respondent has worked with</li>
    <li>DevType: Type of developer role(s) the respondent is associated with</li>
    <li>EdLevel: Highest education level attained</li>
    <li>Employment: Employment status</li>
    <li>Ethnicity: Ethnicity of the respondent</li>
    <li>Gender: Gender of the respondent</li>
    <li>JobFactors: Factors influencing the respondent's job satisfaction</li>
    <li>JobSat: Job satisfaction level</li>
    <li>JobSeek: Job seeking status</li>
    <li>LanguageDesireNextYear: Desired programming languages to work with in the next year</li>
    <li>LanguageWorkedWith: Programming languages the respondent has worked with</li>
    <li>MiscTechDesireNextYear: Desired miscellaneous technologies to work with in the next year</li>
    <li>MiscTechWorkedWith: Miscellaneous technologies the respondent has worked with</li>
    <li>NEWCollabToolsDesireNextYear: Desired collaboration tools for the next year</li>
    <li>NEWCollabToolsWorkedWith: Collaboration tools the respondent has worked with</li>
    <li>NEWDevOps: Whether the respondent identifies with DevOps practices</li>
    <li>NEWDevOpsImpt: Importance of DevOps practices to the respondent</li>
    <li>NEWEdImpt: Importance of education to the respondent</li>
    <li>NEWJobHunt: Job hunting status</li>
    <li>NEWJobHuntResearch: Frequency of job hunting research</li>
    <li>NEWLearn: Frequency of learning new technologies</li>
    <li>NEWOffTopic: Frequency of engaging in off-topic discussions</li>
    <li>NEWOnboardGood: Opinion on the onboarding process of a new job</li>
    <li>NEWOtherComms: Frequency of communication with others outside of regular work duties</li>
    <li>NEWOvertime: Frequency of working overtime</li>
    <li>NEWPurchaseResearch: Frequency of researching products before purchasing</li>
    <li>NEWPurpleLink: Awareness of the "purple link" feature on Stack Overflow</li>
    <li>NEWSOSites: Frequency of visiting Stack Overflow</li>
    <li>NEWStuck: Frequency of getting stuck during coding</li>
    <li>OpSys: Operating system(s) used by the respondent</li>
    <li>OrgSize: Size of the organization the respondent works for</li>
    <li>PlatformDesireNextYear: Desired platforms to work within the next year</li>
    <li>PlatformWorkedWith: Platforms the respondent has worked with</li>
    <li>PurchaseWhat: Types of products the respondent purchases</li>
    <li>Sexuality: Sexual orientation of the respondent</li>
    <li>SOAccount: Presence of a Stack Overflow account (Yes/No)</li>
    <li>SOComm: Frequency of participating in Stack Overflow communities</li>
    <li>SOPartFreq: Frequency of participating in Stack Overflow</li>
    <li>SOVisitFreq: Frequency of visiting Stack Overflow</li>
    <li>SurveyEase: Ease of completing the survey</li>
    <li>SurveyLength: Length of the survey</li>
    <li>Trans: Whether the respondent is transgender (Yes/No)</li>
    <li>UndergradMajor: Undergraduate major of the respondent</li>
    <li>WebframeDesireNextYear: Desired web frameworks to work within the next year</li>
    <li>WebframeWorkedWith: Web frameworks the respondent has worked with</li>
    <li>WelcomeChange: Attitude towards change</li>
    <li>WorkWeekHrs: Average number of hours worked per week</li>
    <li>YearsCode: Number of years the respondent has been coding</li>
    <li>YearsCodePro: Number of years the respondent has been coding professionally</li>
</ul>
<i>Note: we used Country, EdLevel, and YearsCodePro for the prediction of the estimated amount of salary.</i><br><br>

<b>Data Types</b><br>
Categorical variables: MainBranch, Hobbyist, CompFreq, Country, Gender, Employment, etc.<br>
Numerical variables: Age, Age1stCode, CompTotal, ConvertedComp, WorkWeekHrs, YearsCode, YearsCodePro, etc.<br>
Text variables: DevType, JobFactors, LanguageDesireNextYear, etc.<br>

<b>Missing Values</b><br>
The dataset may contain missing values, as indicated by "NA" in the provided sample.<br>

<b>Data Integrity</b><br>
Ensured data integrity by handling missing values and verifying the consistency of responses.<br>

<b>Deployment Instructions</b><br>
Step 1: Install the required dependencies.<br>
```pip install -r requirements.txt```<br>
Step 2: Run the Streamlit app.<br>
```streamlit run app.py```<br>
Step 3: Access the application in your web browser at `http://localhost:8501`.<br>
<hr>
<h3><b>Contributors</b></h3>h3>
Peñaflorida, Sarmiento, Sebial<br>
